Where exactly are you taking
me, Old Man?
You'll find out soon.
Earlier, you told me...
you want to create a world where
everyone can live happily.
So, what was that all about, ya
know?
The place where we're
going...
is the ideal spot to
help you understand everything.
We're here.
Uhh...we're where?
I told you the story
back in the Leaf, didn't I?
About how my grandchild
died?
[BORUTO] Oh yeah. His name was
Kozuchi, right?
[OHNOKI] This is the place where
it happened.
(SHOCKED)
♪♪ (JAPANESE THEME MUSIC)
You're saying that all of this
happened...
while I was under a genjutsu?!
And also, Lady Kurotsuchi is...
(FRUSTRATED)
Since that's the case, we must
notify the other villages!
[KU] It's useless.
(GASP)
(GROANS)
Who are you---?!
As of right now...
we're assuming control of the
Hidden Stone Village.
This is all for the sake of
the Master.
It's rather disappointing...
Is this really all that the
Stone's capable of...
under Kurotsuchi?
I'm leaving you in command of
the Akuta.
Understood. By the
way, Lord Ku...
...is it true that the
Leaf Shinobi...
in our custody has escaped?
Right now, finding the location
of the master is our priority.
The other's just one rat.
You should be able to deal
with him yourself.
(GUILTY)
What is it?
It's nothing. I understand.
This is where your
grandson died?
Yes.
This entire thing started when
I lost my grandchild Kozuchi.
The Fourth Great Ninja War...
left massive scars upon the
world...
And our village... was
no exception.
We toiled away day and
night restoring it...
and in a few years,...
...we somehow managed
to build a new town.
(SIGH) But...
During this last Great
War...
the Stone suffered a
truly devastating loss of life.
The young generation lacks the
skills to make up for it.
So how are we going to
compensate for that?
Listen... the age of Great
Wars is over now.
Just give it time...
and nurture their talent.
You know, Grandfather, now that
you've retired...
You manage to make everything
sound so easy!
(CHUCKLE)
You're leaving?
I promised that I'd meet up with
Kozuchi.
(CHUCKLE) He has really embraced
being a grandpa.
Welcome home, Grandpa!
Oh, hello! I'm sorry that I'm so
late, Kozuchi!
[OHNOKI] Well, you seem awfully
happy!
(CHUCKLE) That's
right, I am!
The Genin Exams are
about to begin and I can't wait!
Oh, that's right! You're finally
at that age now, aren't you?
Kozuchi, from here on out...
it's all going to be up to young
shinobi like you.
I've lived a very long life, and
I have no regrets now.
Whattaya mean?! You gotta live
longer!
...and see me become a
jonin- No...
You gotta see me become the
Tsuchikage, you got it?
Oh! Tsuchikage, huh?
Then I guess I'd better teach
you the precious words...
that I live by...
(EAGER)
The shinobi who manages to
become the Tsuchikage...
must never run away.
He must confront every
difficulty.
Having a will strong enough to
do so is essential.
To never run away... And have a
strong will...
Do you believe you have that, my
boy?
I sure do!
Just you watch!
I'll become a Tsuchikage that'll
surpass even you!
My, my! You have so much
confidence!
(CHUCKLE)
I have high hopes for you,
Kozuchi.
(AFFIRMATIVE) Hm.
[OHNOKI] "I have no regrets
now..."
Back then,... I truly
felt that way.
However...
How strange. Kozuchi's much
later than usual today.
I wonder where he could
be loitering about...
[AKATSUCHI] Lord Ohnoki!
(RUNNING) It's terrible!
Kozuchi's-!
(STUMBLING) Kozuchi's-!
What?!
Kozuchi! Hang in there,
Kozuchi!
(SOBBING)
[OHNOKI] Some deadbeat ninja
attempted...
to steal village secrets...
...so Kozuchi stepped up to try
and stop them... and...
Grand...pa...
(SHOCKED) Kozuchi!
I wanted to be Tsuchikage...
But now...
What are you talking about?!
It's still possible!
I really wanted to become...
(INHALE) a shinobi who protects
the peace...
(INHALE) of the whole world...
[OHNOKI] Kozuchi?!
Kozuchi! (SOBBING)
Kozuchi...
Tell me! Tell me the reason
why Kozuchi had to die!
Kozuchi just happened to learn
that robbers...
were about to attack...
and he went to confront them
alone...
...to hold them until
reinforcements came.
By himself.
You mean... Was it because I
told him...
...that he should never run
away?
No...
What have I done?!
I foolishly thought that the
world was at peace now...
and I placed such high
expectations upon him...
This is the direct result of
that!
What have I done?! It's as
if I killed Kozuchi myself!
(SOBBING)
[AKATSUCHI] He's been like this
ever since...
[KUROTSUCHI] It's
understandable...
[OHNOKI] I was like the walking
dead...
I spent every day in
remorse and despair.
And then, one day...
This notebook was discovered
among his belongings.
It's Kozuchi's?
I'm giving it to you.
[KOZUCHI] Grandpa always tells
me...
that the peace we have in
the world right now...
was made possible by great
shinobi...
who risked their lives to
achieve it.
...I want to become a shinobi
like them!
A shinobi who never wavers...
and who always maintains a
will like bedrock...
no matter what happens.
...And this time, I'll be the
one who protects the peace...
...by becoming a great
Tsuchikage, just like Grandpa.
[OHNOKI] Yes... It's the least I
can do...
I must be the one to
fulfill Kozuchi's will!
There must never be another
tragic death like yours, my boy.
I'll build a lasting peace...
so that young lives will never
be sacrificed again.
That will be my tribute
to you,... Kozuchi!
[OHNOKI] But what could I do to
achieve that goal?
I gave it a lot of thought...
And at last... I came up with a
solution.
If those who were to fight
weren't human...
but instead were soldiers who
had no will...
and did exactly as ordered...
I unearthed jutsu that
had been lost...
and tried to create soldiers
with no will of...
...their own who would do the
fighting for humans...
But they were defective and
proved to be uncontrollable...
There was no way Kurotsuchi
and the others...
would approve of such
soldiers...
I tried everything I could
possibly think of...
in search of a breakthrough.
Then the solution came
from a most unexpected source...
So? What did you want to talk
about in private?
It's about this plan that you're
trying to advance, Lord Ohnoki.
Perhaps I might be of
some assistance to you.
How so?
This is a sample of something
that was discovered...
the other day at a certain ruin.
This is--!
[DOCTOR] Wouldn't you agree
that, with this...
great progress can be made in
the research...
to create non-human soldiers?
Why would you bring this
directly to me?
Because I am completely in
support of your grand plan...
Lord Third.
Rather than show this to Lady
Kurotsuchi...
I thought that first...
But still... to rely on
something like this...
Would people truly approve of
it?
What should I do about this?
Kozuchi...
I must carry on Kozuchi's will
and fulfill his wish!
To do so... even if the means
might be detestable... I will--!
There was an old underground
facility...
that hadn't been used
in a long time.
I secretly made it my base...
and revived my plan.
We used the sample that
had been brought to me...
and the plan to create
artificial life...
which we called "Fabrications,"
began in earnest.
First came Ku, who was
essentially a clone of me.
He was the one who would command
the other soldiers...
Then came four more
Fabrications...
who would serve as his arms
and legs...
And finally,... to be
led by those five...
the Akuta troops were born.
Once we perfect these
beings...
the peace in the Stone
will be protected.
And Kurotsuchi will have no
choice...
but to acknowledge that I
was right.
If we let non-humans do all the
fighting...
then there will never
again be another tragedy
where young lives are lost.
We've almost achieved it,
Kozuchi.
So that's the story...
I simply must bring this plan to
completion.
Because doing so is fulfilling
Kozuchi's will.
Old Man...
I shared this story
with you...
because I believed
that you would understand.
I'm not even considering using
the Akuta...
...to conquer any territory
that's owned by another land.
In fact, it's just the opposite.
In the end...
this power is for preserving the
peace in the Stone...
and the whole shinobi world.
The reason that all of you were
captured
...was just to prevent you from
interfering
with the plan's completion.
Once it's done, you'll
be released.
So you didn't want to fight us
in the first place?
Not as long as you didn't get in
my way.
So, then? Do you still have a
reason to oppose me and my plan?
Well, it's just that...
What is it?
Well... you said there was a
sample that marked a turning
point for your research, right?
(CURIOUS)
[BORUTO] So... what was it?
[OHNOKI] Something that you're
very familiar with.
Yes...
...it's a White Zetsu!
A White Zetsu?!
You're seriously using a
dangerous monster like that?
What're you even thinking?!
I'm aware of the danger.
But still! That creature...
was created by the Otsutsuki,
right?
I admit, there are still things
that remain a mystery.
And that's why Mitsuki is so
critical for us.
Mitsuki? What do you mean?
Despite our research...
the life of a Fabrication is
still unstable.
To put it simply, they don't
live very long.
What? How long do they live for?
A year or perhaps just a few
months...
Sometimes even the next day...
they can just suddenly stop
functioning all together.
Mitsuki can provide the means to
resolve all that.
A perfect synthetic human...
Once we study his body...
...we can fix the defects in the
Fabrications.
With that data, we can then
make perfect ones.
And at that time, we'll gladly
release Mitsuki.
[OHNOKI] What he decides to do
after that is all up to him.
You're saying you don't
intend to hurt him, then?
Of course not!
I'd never want to do that. All I
want is peace, that's it!
Peace, huh...?
Well... I've been honest with
you and told you everything.
So do you still mistrust me?
Well I-!
I won't ask you to cooperate.
However...
...there's no reason for
conflict to exist between us.
Protecting the peace of the
shinobi world.
And preventing the loss of
lives...
As a shinobi...
I'm sure that you must feel the
same way I do, Boruto...
Am I wrong?
Old Man...
This is a coup d'état!
Don't they care at all about how
this is going to be received?
I've got to get word back to my
dad!
Seems all the key points of
the village have been secured.
Anyone who tries to interfere
been jailed.
Two birds with one stone...
And we also got the "things"
that we need.
(MILD SHOVING)
We chose five... just like you
ordered.
So you're saying, if we use
their hearts...
then we'll be able to extend our
lives?
That's right. But we can't lay
a finger on them...
without the Master's permission.
What?! That's crazy, Lord Ku!
After we've come this far?!
I said no!
It's contrary to the Master's
plan to take human lives!
Yes, but this isn't the time to
be so cautious!
The Master has the final say in
all this.
Just make sure everything's
ready.
(ANNOYED)
Alright, as you wish, sir.
(CURIOUS)
So, what are we supposed to do
now?!
Split up and continue to search
for the Master.
However, don't go overboard.
Are you actually worried about
us, Lord Ku?
We are tools that the Master
needs to finish this.
We can't take risks.
But what if we don't finish it
in time?
We have a way to live right now!
And yet you want us to just wait
for death to arrive?!
When the time comes...
...a little sacrifice can't
be helped.
Oh, my!
My wish is the same as the
Master's.
And I am certain that this is
what he would want!
I get what you were talking
about before...
...that you've genuinely been
thinking about...
how to maintain peace.
That's right! So that young
lives need not be sacrificed...
the Fabrications are essential.
But, Old Man...
(CURIOUS) Hm?
I'll admit I don't know too
much about them.
I had run-ins with two of
them...
...but still...
They could talk and think just
like us humans. And...
it seemed to me they had their
own personalities, too.
So having guys like that fight
for us...
I mean... what's the
difference between us and them
going off to fight?
They may look like humans, but
like their name...
they're really nothing more
than Fabrications, that's all!
What seem to be a will and
personality...
are just programmed functions.
Do you really believe that's
true?
What's that?
Your belief in a "will" is
much stronger than most.
Just like what you taught us
back at the Hidden Leaf Village.
(TAKEN BACK)
And yet here you are saying
the Fabrications have no will...
Do you really mean that?
C'mon, be honest! Do you
really believe that?
(shocked)
This is ridiculous.
What a strange thing to say when
you know nothing about them.
Yeah, maybe...
But... I do know something about
Mitsuki.
He and those guys acted
like they were true friends.
Mitsuki does have a will.
Which means...
you have no proof that those
guys don't have one, do you?
(UNCERTAIN)
And if they do have a will...
How are they any different from
humans?
Is sacrificing them different
than a person?
(DISTRESSED)
Look, don't get so emotional.
While they're alike in
appearance...
Fabrications are not human.
And it's possible that the same
applies to Mitsuki, as well.
What's that?! Are you saying
Mitsuki doesn't have a will?!
On what grounds can you say he
does?
Come on! Of course Mitsuki has
a will!
If you wanna know the truth...
I don't think you even know what
you're talking about, Old Man!
There's just no way
I'd ever cooperate with a plan
like yours.
I've explained to you what I
wish to do.
If I still haven't managed to
convince you,...
if you still oppose my heartfelt
vow...
...then it can't be helped.
I suppose we'll just have
to go back to being enemies.
(ANGRY)
It appears that someone has come
for us.
(ATTENTION IS CAUGHT)
[KAKOU] Ah! So here you are,
Lord Ohnoki!
(EAGER CHUCKLE)
How nice to see you, Kakou.
(FRUSTRATED)
♪♪ (JAPANESE END CREDITS)
[BORUTO] Kakou...?! Is he a
Fabrication, too?
[KAKOU] Tell me,...
is your heart pounding in your
chest right now?
Let me get a taste of
that feeling!
[BORUTO] Quit saying stuff that
makes no sense!
[KAKOU] Come on! Entertain me
some more!
Next time on "Boruto: Naruto
Next Generations..."
"The Sensation of Living"
[KAKOU] This is so much fun!
Fighting really is a lot of fun!